Check out the latest open source updates from Posit, now available on our shiny new Posit
open source website. The website has pages for our software, blog posts, upcoming events, and more.
1. OpenTelemetry in R. Posit has now implemented eight widely used R packages with open
telemetry support. This change brings production-grade observability to R applications.
2. Mirai 2.7.0 and Mori 0.2.0 are now on CRAN, extending R's async capabilities for production
use. 3. Quarto 2 introduces a custom markdown parser designed to provide actionable syntax
errors. 4. A new Plot9 skill is now available for AI coding agents to enable them to generate
consistent and runnable Plot9 code. 5. GreatDocs version 0.10 marks the 10th release of the Python
documentation tool and has 10 key features added since launch, including LLM integration,
cross-reference validation, flexible theming, and enhanced API reference generation. 6. BSLib 0.11
and PyShiny 1.6 introduce toolbar components. 7. Positron's May release includes a lot of
highly requested features, including inline output for Quarto, package pane, and the Positron
notebook editor is now in beta. We round up these updates in the Glimpse newsletter every month.
Which one are you most excited about? Let us know in the comments!